new css guide: css clipping (#39475)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_masking/css_clipping/index.md

### The `clip-path` property

The `clip-path` property applies clipping. The value it accepts is a vector path defining the area of the element that should remain visible. The path can be defined using boxes, a reference to an [SVG `<clipPath>`](#svg-as-source), or CSS [shapes and paths](#shape-function). In the following example, we clip a blue square {{htmlelement("div")}}, creating a diamond, using the {{cssxref("basic-shape/polygon","polygon()")}} function as the clipping path:

```html hidden live-sample__clip-path
<div class="diamond"></div>
```

```css live-sample__clip-path
.diamond {
  height: 200px;
  width: 200px;
  background-color: blue;

  clip-path: polygon(0 50%, 50% 100%, 100% 50%, 50% 0);
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('clip-path', 230, 230) }}

With the `clip-path` property, you can make complex shapes by clipping an element to a `<basic-shape>` or to an [SVG source](#svg-as-source). You can [animate and transition `clip-path` shapes](#animation) if the declared states have the same number of vector points.

### Values of the `clip-path` property

> To visually clip an element, the `clip-path` property is set to either a {{cssxref("geometry-box")}}, a {{cssxref("url")}} to a {{svgElement("clipPath")}} clip source, or a {{cssxref("basic-shape")}} created with [shape function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units/CSS_Value_Functions#shape_functions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To visually clip an element, the `clip-path` property is set to either a {{cssxref("geometry-box")}}, a {{cssxref("url_value", "url")}} to a {{svgElement("clipPath")}} clip source, or a {{cssxref("basic-shape")}} created with [shape function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units/CSS_Value_Functions#shape_functions).
```

  }
}

.star {
  animation: morphStar alternate 3s infinite ease-in-out;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Animation', 230, 230) }}

### The `path()` function

The `path()` function enables drawing shapes using SVG commands. The function accepts the equivalent of the SVG {{svgattr("d")}} attribute as the function's parameter.

The star from the previous example can be created using `path()`:

```html hidden
<div class="star"></div>
```

```css
.star {
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  background: linear-gradient(rebeccapurple, magenta) blue;
  clip-path: path(
    "M100,0 L122,70 L200,70 L136,114 L158,182 L100,140 L42,182 L64,114 L0,70 L78,70 L100,0 Z"
  );
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('The path function', 230, 230) }}

### Curved lines

With `path()`, we are not limited to straight lines. In this example, we use the `path()` function to create a heart:

```html hidden
<div class="heart"></div>
```

```css
.heart {
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  background: linear-gradient(rebeccapurple, magenta) blue;
  clip-path: path(
    "M20,70 A40,40,0,0,1,100,70 A40,40,0,0,1,180,70 Q180,130,100,190 Q20,130,20,70 Z"
  );
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Curved lines', 230, 230) }}

### SVG as source

> Instead of passing an SVG {{svgattr("d)}} attribute string as the `path()` function argument, the value of the `clip-path` property can reference the SVG {{svgelem("clipPath")}} element directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of passing an SVG {{svgattr("d")}} attribute string as the `path()` function argument, the value of the `clip-path` property can reference the SVG {{svgElement("clipPath")}} element directly.
```

```html
<div class="heart"></div>
<svg height="0" width="0">
  <clipPath id="heart">
    <path d="M20,70 A40,40,0,0,1,100,70 A40,40,0,0,1,180,70 Q180,130,100,190 Q20,130,20,70 Z">
  </clipPath>
</svg>
```

> The `id` of the `<clipPath>` is the parameter of the {{cssxref("url")}} function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `id` of the `<clipPath>` is the parameter of the {{cssxref("url_function", "url()")}} function.
```

Reviewer: `{{cssxref("url")}}` redirects, so we can choose `url_function` or `url_value`

    arc to 180px 70px of 1% cw,
    curve to 100px 190px with 180px 130px,
    curve to 20px 70px with 20px 130px
  );
}
```

The `shape()` function is more robust in that it accepts CSS values and units (`path()` is limited to coordinates), including using CSS math functions like `calc()`. By using variables, we can create shapes (and boxes) of many different sizes:

```css
:root {
  --m: 10;
}
.heart {
  width: calc(20px * var(--m));
  height: calc(20px * var(--m));
  display: inline-block;
  background: linear-gradient(rebeccapurple, magenta) blue;
  clip-path: border-box
    shape(
      from calc(2px * var(--m)) calc(7px * var(--m)),
      arc to calc(10px * var(--m)) calc(7px * var(--m)) of 1% cw,
      arc to calc(18px * var(--m)) calc(7px * var(--m)) of 1% cw,
      curve to calc(10px * var(--m)) calc(19px * var(--m)) with
        calc(18px * var(--m)) calc(13px * var(--m)),
      curve to calc(2px * var(--m)) calc(7px * var(--m)) with
        calc(2px * var(--m)) calc(13px * var(--m))
    );
}
.small {
  --m: 4;
}

.medium {
  --m: 8;
}

.large {
  --m: 12;
}
```

```html
<div class="heart small"></div>
<div class="heart medium"></div>
<div class="heart large"></div>
```

> {{ EmbedLiveSample('shape function', 230, 240) }}

Reviewer: This one has vertical scrollbar, but not a big deal

---
title: Introduction to CSS clipping
slug: Web/CSS/CSS_masking/CSS_clipping
page-type: guide
---

{{CSSRef}}

> CSS clipping enables you to define visible portions of an element while hiding other parts, effectively "clipping" its content within a specific shape or area. With clipping, elements aren't limited to being rendered as rectangles. By applying clipping, you can create visually engaging designs. This guide explores the {{cssxref("clip-path")}} property along with some examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CSS clipping enables you to define visible portions of an element while hiding other parts, effectively "clipping" its content within a specific shape or area. With clipping, elements aren't limited to being rendered as rectangles and can be designed in visually engaging ways. This guide explores the {{cssxref("clip-path")}} property along with some examples.
```

## CSS clipping

> Clipping is a CSS technique used to clip, or hide, sections of an element, displaying only the area of the element located within a developer defined path. Clips areas are created by vector paths; anything in the path is visible while areas outside the path are hidden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clipping is a CSS technique used to clip (hide) sections of an element, displaying only the area of the element located within a developer-defined path. Clips areas are created by vector paths; anything in the path is visible while areas outside the path are hidden.
```

### The `clip-path` property

> The `clip-path` property lets you apply clipping. The value is the vector path defining the area of the element that should remain visible. The path can be defined using boxes, a reference to an [SVG `<clipPath>`](#svg-as-source), or CSS [shapes and paths](#shape-function). For example, we clip a blue square {{htmlelement("div")}}, creating a diamond, using the {{cssxref("basic-shape/polygon","polygon()")}} function as the clipping path:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `clip-path` property applies clipping. The value it accepts is a vector path defining the area of the element that should remain visible. The path can be defined using boxes, a reference to an [SVG `<clipPath>`](#svg-as-source), or CSS [shapes and paths](#shape-function). In the following example, we clip a blue square {{htmlelement("div")}}, creating a diamond, using the {{cssxref("basic-shape/polygon","polygon()")}} function as the clipping path:
```

```html hidden live-sample__clip-path
<div class="diamond"></div>
```

```css live-sample__clip-path
.diamond {
  height: 200px;
  width: 200px;
  background-color: blue;

  clip-path: polygon(0 50%, 50% 100%, 100% 50%, 50% 0);
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('clip-path', 230, 230) }}

With the `clip-path` property, you can make complex shapes by clipping an element to a `<basic-shape>` or to an [SVG source](#svg-as-source). You can [animate and transition `clip-path` shapes](#animation) if the declared states have the same number of vector points.

### Values of the `clip-path` property

> To visually clip an element, the `clip-path` property is set to either a {{cssxref("geometry-box")}}, a {{cssxref("url")}} to a {{svgElem(
>   "clipPaht")}} clip source, or a {{cssxref("basic-shape")}} created with [shape function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units/CSS_Value_Functions#shape_functions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To visually clip an element, the `clip-path` property is set to either a {{cssxref("geometry-box")}}, a {{cssxref("url")}} to a {{svgElement("clipPath")}} clip source, or a {{cssxref("basic-shape")}} created with [shape function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Values_and_Units/CSS_Value_Functions#shape_functions).
```

```css hidden
body {
  display: flex;
  flex-flow: row wrap;
  place-content: center;
}
blockquote {
  float: left;
  font-size: 1.2rem;
}
q {
  color: white;
  font-family: sans-serif;
  display: block;
  margin-bottom: 0.5em;
}
p {
  margin: 0;
  line-height: 1.6;
}

body {
  --value: initial;
}
body:has([value="border-box"]:checked) {
  --value: border-box;
}
body:has([value="padding-box"]:checked) {
  --value: padding-box;
}
body:has([value="content-box"]:checked) {
  --value: content-box;
}
body:has([type="checkbox"]:checked) blockquote {
  border-radius: 70px;
}
```

```css
blockquote {
  width: 210px;
  padding: 20px;
  margin: 20px;
  border: 20px dashed #dedede;
  background-color: #ededed;
  background-image: linear-gradient(rebeccapurple, magenta);
  background-repeat: no-repeat;
}

.clippath {
  background-origin: var(--value);
  clip-path: var(--value);
}

.boxmodel {
  background-origin: var(--value);
}
```

```html hidden
<blockquote class="clippath">
  <q
    >I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what
    you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.</q
  >
  <cite>&mdash; Maya Angelou</cite>
</blockquote>

> <blockquote class="boxmodel">

Reviewer: My spellchecker flagged this:

```suggestion
<blockquote class="box-model">
```

  <q
    >I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what
    you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.</q
  >
  <cite>&mdash; Maya Angelou</cite>
</blockquote>

<fieldset>
  <legend>Select the geometry box value:</legend>
  <p>
    <label
      ><input type="radio" name="gb" value="border-box" /> border-box</label
    >
  </p>
  <p>
    <label
      ><input type="radio" name="gb" value="padding-box" /> padding-box</label
    >
  </p>
  <p>
    <label
      ><input type="radio" name="gb" value="content-box" /> content-box</label
    >
  </p>
  <p>
    <label
      ><input type="radio" name="gb" value="initial" checked /> initial</label
    >
  </p>
</fieldset>
<p>
  <label><input type="checkbox" /> Change the border radius</label>
</p>
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('visual box values', 230, 430) }}

> When a `<geometry>` box is specified in combination with a `<basic-shape>`, the value defines the reference box for the basic shape. If specified by itself, it causes the edges of the specified box, including any corner shaping (such as a border-radius), to be the clipping path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a `<geometry>` box is specified in combination with a `<basic-shape>`, the value defines the reference box for the basic shape. If specified by itself, it causes the edges of the specified box, including any corner shaping (such as a `border-radius`), to be the clipping path.
```

## Clipping to basic shapes

The `clip-path` property's support of {{cssxref("basic-shape")}} values provides a powerful way to shape elements. The various shape function enable defining precise clipping regions, effectively sculpting elements into unique forms. The basic shape functions, include:

- {{cssxref("basic-shape/circle","circle()")}}
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/ellipse","ellipse()")}}
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/inset","inset()")}}
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/path","path()")}}
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/polygon","polygon()")}}
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/rect","rect()")}}
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/shape","shape()")}}
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/xywh","xywh()")}}

The size and position of these shapes are defined by the `<geometry-box>` value, which defaults to border-box being used as the reference box if the `clip-path` value includes a shape without the `<geometry-box>` component value.

> Some of these functions appear to only provide basic predefined clipping options. They may appear to replicate effects you can created with {{csxref("border-radius")}}, but if you [toggled the `border-radius`](#visual-box-values) property in the previous example, you may have noticed the power of CSS clipping. Shapes provide even more control. For example,`inset()` enables clipping a rectangul with precise margins. The real power and control comes with `path()`, `shape()`, and even `polygon()`, which allows for custom multi-point shapes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of these functions appear to only provide basic predefined clipping options. They may appear to replicate effects you can created with {{csxref("border-radius")}}, but if you [toggled the `border-radius`](#visual-box-values) property in the previous example, you may have noticed the power of CSS clipping. Shapes provide even more control. For example,`inset()` enables clipping a rectangle with precise margins. The real power and control comes with `path()`, `shape()`, and even `polygon()`, which allows for custom multi-point shapes.
```
